>> Spencer Schneidenbach: So constructors
are really important part of classes, so
lots of classes use constructors
to kind of gatekeep and say, hey,
I cannot instantiate.
I cannot become a physical
object in the .NET world,
unless you provide me specific
things that I can use to exist.
So let me show you what that looks like,
so,
if I redeclare my person
class here like that.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: And I have
a name and an age, I'm gonna go ahead and
close these setters, in other words,
I'm just gonna delete them
to kind of to prove a point.
I've made this object,
essentially what's called immutable,
you can't change anything about
this object, at least not direct,
not directly without
a little bit of magic.
But you can see that I have indeed
actually set these values to something
else up here, but only in the context
of what is called a constructor.
Now, a constructor looks a lot like
a method, except it doesn't have
a return type, and the name of the method
is always the name of the class.
So it's a little bit of a funky syntax,
if you're looking at methods and
you're trying to make them into a method,
it's a very special,
very purpose built type of method and
this is how you use it.
So if I wanted to create a new person var
spencer equals new, so new is a keyword
you use to what's called instantiate or
create an instance of this class.
We were materializing spencer
into our digital world, so
we do new person and then the syntax for
calling this constructor is the same
as you would for calling a method.
These are still called parameters up here,
they can have params arguments, for
instance, they can even
have default values.
You can set age to 37, which happens
to be my age, and you can say,
I wanna call this constructor,
and you can see that age 37.
I can call it with just my name, or
if I wanna pretend I'm 29
I can do that as well.
So that's what's called instantiation, now
we've brought this object into existence.
It's a reference type, so that means it
is materialized in a point in memory,
and this variable is referencing
that value in that memory.
So, classes are really important,
because they are,
pretty much the fundamental building
block for any real programming or
business programming
inside of the .NET world.
They're kind of a container for
properties, but
they don't always just contain properties,
they can also contain behaviors,
which is really an important part, and
we'll get to that here in a second.
>> Student 1: So
maybe I'm not understanding, or
maybe this is the point when you're
creating the constructor and
setting age to 37 and then you can
only get there's no way to set it.
How is it that when you are then
creating or instantiating spencer and
20 and setting the age to
29 that you can do that?
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Absolutely,
so that's a good question and
it really has to do with default values.
Default values are about ultimately like
providing flexibility to the programmer,
especially the lazy programmer.
You may decide that, what, I just want to
instantiate this person object with an age
of 37 or I don't want that default value.
I wanna, override it, so what would happen
is, is once this is instantiated and
we do this, I'm gonna debug this and
I'll show you the value.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: You can see
that the value is now overridden to 29,
because I have made it so.
>> Student 1: Okay, so
it's just setting it to 37,
initially as just the default value?
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Correct,
and that makes it optional, right?
So you can, if you want, remove this
argument, and then once we hit a debug and
we go back here,
you'll see that it is now indeed 37.
So it's, there's default values are used
quite a bit in programming and,
in the real world for lots of different
things, for methods, for constructors.
So they do have their they
have a lot of purpose,
so good question, you bet.
Okay it's important to note that
a class can actually contain
multiple constructors.
Now you can see here that, in a sense,
we have one constructor, but
it's got some flexibility.
We can call it multiple different ways,
right?
We can call Amy, Amy is 24,
we can call this constructor two different
ways with two different sets of arguments,
because it's got a default value.
But this isn't just the only way
you can instantiate a classic,
class can have what's called
multiple constructors.
You can have multiple.
Ways of instantiating a class, and
this is really important to note
because it's frankly very common.
It's very common when you're talking
about objects that serve the purpose
simply of processing data, that there may
be some different ways to process it.
And sometimes it needs things and
sometimes it doesn't need things, right?
So multiple constructors is really
about giving the developer flexibility,
you may be able to create an object,
multiple different ways, and
just give that developer some flexibility.
So you can see I've removed
the constructor with the default value, so
if I go back here and I type in my parens,
you can see now that it's saying, well,
there's two different ways
I can be instantiated.
So there's string, dot name, and
then there's string dot name and int age.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: This gets really
important when you're talking about
service-based classes, and
I said, we will talk about this.
We'll probably touch on
this in the next course,
in the ASP.NET Core course,
but just know that
multiple constructors can exist on a class
to construct them in different ways.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: You can also
save yourself some keystrokes by simply
instantiating or simply calling
a constructor within another constructor.
And the way that you would
do that is afterwards,
you see that you can use right
after your constructor declaration,
you can do this, and then you can do
a colon, and then you can type this.
And this allows you to then
call other constructors, so
you can say, here I want to pass
in this name parameter to this,
and then I just wanna set the age to 0.
So that's a way of calling a constructor,
you can also do the converse, right?
You could have this always set the name
like so, and then call this and
just pass this name so that it always
calls this constructor as well,
so both are valid, yes Marc.
>> Marc: Is it bad practice to do
this.Name=name
inside of the constructor?
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Is
it bad practice?
It is not, and, in fact, a lot of people
would consider it to be good practice.
So the question really
is about accessing name.
So let's say, for the sake of argument,
and most of the time if you follow the c
sharp styling rules,
this isn't gonna be a problem.
But let's say you have a,
string name as a parameter,
and parameters are typically,
camel case, so
the first character is always lowercase.
You can have,
this is perfectly valid, c sharp, but
what it the compiler's doing is, telling
you assignment made to the same variable.
Did you mean to assign something else?
That's because inside of the scope of this
constructor, you've actually changed what
name looks like, sometimes collision is
not allowed in c sharp other times it is.
And this is one of the cases where it is,
you can absolutely have a parameter
declared on a method that is also
declared somewhere else in that scope.
So the way that you would mitigate
that based on Marc's question is
to type "this" in front of that.
So that actually refers to
the person.Name property.
So "this" refers to the the object itself.
That's a good question,
good way to kinda segue into "this" keyword.
But in practice, you're almost never
going to declare a property and
then have a name and
a parameter that has the exact same name.
They're gonna be cased differently.
And most of the time,
Spencer, because of that,
is cuz he's following those style rules.
He's gonna bypass using the "this" keyword.
But some people really
like the "this" keyword.
Again, it's just referring to itself.
Some people really like it
because it's really explicit.
And even the .NET tooling
will try to tell you, hey,
you can actually make this simpler,
you don't need the "this" keyword here.
Great question.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: All right,
I wanna go over the syntax, but I don't
wanna dwell on it, because, frankly,
I don't use it a lot and I don't like it.
[LAUGH] This is one of those features of
C# that's relatively new that I think it
fits fine into the language, but it's not
something that I am personally a fan of.
You can do what's called
a primary constructor.
And a primary constructor allows you
to set, basically in the same line
with this parentheses up here,
right after the class declaration.
In the same line,
you can set string Name and int Age, and
that will actually automatically
create properties for you as well.
So if we go down to Amy.,
no it does not create properties for you.
Let me see, am I missing some syntax here?
Let's see.
Create and assign property name.
Okay, that's not true for record types.
Okay, I misspoke there.
I'm actually gonna rewind and
start that over.
So you can use what's called
a primary constructor, which
you can declare basically a parentheses,
and then give it some values up here.
And this is a constructor definition.
I'm a fan of using multiple construction.
And oftentimes if I'm declaring an object
with a constructor, there's a good chance
that it'll have multiple constructors that
might have multiple different purposes.
So I'm not a fan of this syntax, but
it will play well with
multiple constructors as well.
It's just that I personally don't like it.
Now, I am gonna show you
a little bit of the tooling.
You're gonna see that
Parameter 'Name' is unread.
You see that it's asking
me to do a quick fix.
So I'm going to hit Cmd + Period, and
you're gonna see that it will
give you some suggestions,
it will give you some code hints, or
some hints of things that you can do.
So in this case, I am going to
declare a property called Name and
then set it to the Name parameter here.
Again, I am not a fan of
primary constructors, but
I have seen them in the wild because
.NET developers like new features.
So there you go.
There's the syntax for it.
I don't just particularly care for
the syntax, so a lot of times,
I just don't use it.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: So we talked
about the new keyword to create instances
of a class.
We should talk about as well validating
data that comes into a class.
So I'm gonna unwind all of this, and
I am gonna go back to the this.Name.
That's a fine syntax to go from.
And I am going to show you a very common
pattern when you're constructing objects,
which is to check to see that
the parameters of your object are valid.
So I'm gonna go here, and I'm going to
say, if the string is null or whitespace,
I'm going to throw an ArgumentException
to say that Name cannot be null or empty.
You can also give it in
the ArgumentException,
you can give it the name of
the parameter if you want.
That's useful for somebody who's
handling that exception downstream.
But this basically will prevent our object
from being created in an invalid state.
So I'm gonna run this, and I'm gonna show
you that it's gonna crash at runtime.
Boom, let's see.
Unhandled exception, Name cannot be
null or empty, (Parameter 'name').
So it threw our system to
ArgumentException, and
we did that at the constructor, and
we did that deliberately, right?
We don't want an invalid representation
of an object to exist in memory if
we can help it.
This renders this object
completely unusable.
So you can't use it and
it is not instantiated.
And you cannot recover from this
except to catch the exception and
try to re-instantiate the object.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Okay, this
is one of my favorite pieces of syntax,
and I think it's a really cool one.
You've probably seen it already.
You've probably seen me use it already,
which is that, I'm gonna go ahead and
put this as a setter.
I'm gonna open up the setter here.
Oftentimes when I'm dealing with objects
that are, quote, unquote, representations
of real world things like a person,
I'm not usually using constructors.
I use constructors for other things,
which I'll touch on more
in the ASP NET Core course.
But for representing objects like people,
I'm not using a constructor directly.
But there may be a situation where I
want to instantiate this object with
certain values.
So you can use what's called
object initializer syntax.
So let me show you what that looks like.
So I'm gonna say new Person.
I can leave off the open and
close parentheses if I want, but
I'm gonna put them on
there just to be explicit.
And then I'm gonna use this syntax after.
I'm gonna have this little tiny block.
And this block,
if I hit Ctrl + Space to kinda see what
I've got of available to me,
I can see that I can set age and name.
And what I can do is I can
set these properties as
I'm instantiating this object.
The syntax was introduced a long time ago.
It is a syntax that I use a lot to declare
objects, because the alternative is
to just do new Person and
then person.Name, and then person.Age.
And oftentimes the tooling will tell you,
hey, there's an easier way to do this.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: So it'll say
object initialization can be simplified.
Ctrl + Dot, and you'll see,
it'll suggest to do that.
Super common syntax, super nice,
saves you key strokes, and
I think it looks nicer, too.
This is a relatively new thing.
You can also declare
a property as immutable, but
set it inside of the object
initialization syntax only.
Such that you can replace the setter
with an init, and that basically says
the way that you set this is within
the object initializer only, and
then you're not able to
set it after the fact.
So it effectively converts
it to be immutable.
This becomes important when you talk about
nullability, because as you can see,
we've got this little squiggly line,
it's probably been bothering some of you.
And it says non-nullable property 'Name'
must contain a non-null value when exiting
constructor.
And this is just a compiler warning
saying, hey you have nullability
turned on, so we're gonna give
you these extra compiler hints,
because you haven't declared
this name with a question mark.
You haven't said that this
is a nullable object.
So it should have null or
it should not be null.
So you can do what's called required.
This is really relatively
new in the last version or
two of C# as of the date of this course.
And you can basically say,
you need to instantiate this in the object
initializer or
else we're gonna throw a compiler error.
It'll say required member 'Person.Name;
must be set in the object initializer.
So the point of me showing you all this
is to really just show you that there's
a lot of different ways that you
can kind of declare classes.
I think the most important ones you
need to know are the get set right here,
which just creates a plain old property.
I don't use get init a lot, I have not
used get init required a lot either.
And the main reason is that I'm working on
older code bases a lot of the times, even
just a few years old before nullability
really started to pick up steam.
These are really important when
you're talking about newer projects,
but for older projects,
it's almost impossible to go back and
add nullability in a meaningful
way to the whole project.
If it's of any complex size,
is simply because, hey, we're programmers.
They're paying us to ship features,
not to turn things from nullable to not so
most of the time, that just gets bypassed.
For newer projects,
I would probably tend to use get init and
get required init,
I'd probably use them a lot more.
I want to touch on one last thing,
which is that reference type,
reference types have what's called
reference referential equality.
That means that even
though these references,
these persons,
these person classes instantiated,
have the exact same name and
the exact same age as each other.
If we try to print
Console.WriteLine,
if we print person one equals person two,
it's going to print false.
And the reason is, is that they
are different references in memory,
so they're different things.
You can compare them, you can write
your own custom method to do so,
you can override the object equals.
So we'll talk about overriding when we
talk about abstract classes essentially
allows you to change behavior
of existing methods.
You can add in an equalizers or and
you can override the equals method
such that you're able to tell
the person class that, yes,
these things are equal, but that's
because we've explicitly set it to do so.
That one didn't work, and I think maybe
because hash code isn't set, but anyways,
we'll talk about, I think it's
actually person1.equalsperson2,
that's the one, okay.
I used the wrong comparison,
I was using a double equals
to compare as opposed to
the actual equals method.
Which is to say that equality
in C-Sharp has some nuance to
it such that a person1 double
equals person2 doesn't have
the same behavior as
person1.equals using this method.
You can actually if you want to override
the equals operator, you can actually say,
I want the doubles equal operator to
have this very specific behavior.
In practice I almost never do that, simply
because if I'm checking the equality of
an object like this, I'm probably doing it
in a very explicit way and not hide and
I'm not usually hiding that
behind the language feature.
Because then the expectation is, is that,
well, if I can do double equals on person,
why can't I do it on animals as well?
And if you don't have it
implemented on animals,
now you're inconsistent in your code base.
Lastly, you can implement an interface,
which we will talk about
interfaces very shortly.
You can implement an interface that gives
you a way to define an equals method for
other classes, so you can check it to
see you can define an equals method for
checking to see if it's
equal to another person.
You could also do it if the person class
is different from an employee class,
you can implement this interface.
I just want you to know that
this exists for now, obviously,
we haven't covered interfaces yet.
Just know that this is
a thing that exists,
when looking at interfaces and
you look back and refer to this,
you'll see and
you'll be able to see what it's used for.
But for most of the purposes of things
right now, I will tell you that I almost
never implement this interface,
I almost never write code like this.
Again, I'm usually checking a quality in a
very like explicit way, usually just I'll
define a custom, are these people equal
method or something along those lines?